The top business intelligence solutions make finding insights into data and effectively communicating them to stakeholders easier. It has never been more crucial for businesses to sift through massive amounts of data in search of meaningful insights, as data can now be collected on everything from sales and marketing to workflows and efficiency to hiring and HR to overall performance and profitability. However, most of this information is siloed and can only be put together with the help of specialized business intelligence (BI) tools.

Key performance indicators (KPIs) are just one way this data can improve business operations based on accurate predictions. While many programs provide built-in analytics features, the results can be exported into a business intelligence system.

The greatest business intelligence tools will also be based on interactive representations that may be presented to key stakeholders, simplifying the presentation of otherwise complex data.
🔥 Join The Fastest Growing ML Subreddit

Listed below are currently the top business intelligence tools on the market.
actiTIME 

actiTIME is a time and project management system that helps you gain insight into your company’s productivity. Time and project progress can be monitored in real-time with its support, allowing you to finish on time and under budget. Managers are able to make well-informed decisions about resource allocation, priority setting, and timetables because of this level of transparency and control. actiTIME’s visual representation of performance data and trends in readily digestible charts facilitates rapid situational awareness on the part of managers. This graphic aids in spotting slowdowns, inefficiencies, and improvement openings. Take remedial action based on this data to guarantee that your team is actively working toward project goals.
SAS Viya

SAS Viya is a robust and flexible business analytics platform that provides easy access to your data and insightful analysis in a flash. SAS Viya, built on a modern microservices architecture, is equipped to deal with the intricacies of big data and sophisticated analytics, allowing you to solve difficult business challenges and make informed choices. SAS Viya provides a graphical representation of all vital data and trends to quicken analysis and improve decision-making. Reports, charts, maps, and dashboards are all presented in an interactive format. Furthermore, it includes decision trees, scenario simulations, and automated forecasting to aid in optimal decision-making regardless of the decision maker’s expertise.
Oracle BI

Oracle BI is an all-inclusive set of BI tools that businesses may use to collect and analyze data for better decision-making. Advanced analytics, reporting, and dashboard capabilities are just a few of the tools and technologies that can be accessed through this robust system, which can be adapted to meet the demands of enterprises operating in a wide variety of sectors. Oracle BI allows businesses to understand their data better, increase productivity, and find untapped development opportunities. Oracle BI has everything a company needs to reach the next level, from sales process optimization to customer behavior analysis to actionable insights into operational performance.
Clear Analytics

Organizations can use Clear Analytics, a robust data reporting tool, to gain an edge in the market. Thanks to its user-friendly interface and powerful functionality, Clear Analytics allows users to rapidly and effectively analyze complicated data sets, spot trends, and make data-informed decisions. The fact that it requires no prior training to use is one of its primary benefits. By leveraging the features of Excel, which is already familiar to most people, Clear Analytics provides powerful data analysis capabilities with less time and effort spent on migration, onboarding, and learning. The software is compatible with Microsoft Power BI, so you may use its features to get greater insight from your data.
Tableau 

Tableau is a cutting-edge system that has swiftly gained favor among data gurus worldwide because of its exceptional adaptability and ease of use. Tableau’s seamless compatibility with big and varied data sets makes it easy to gain smart and relevant insights without effort. The platform’s extensive visual analytics tools cut down on prep time and speed up the discovery of useful information. Access data stored locally or in the cloud with the same tool, thanks to its ability to connect to various data sources. Important questions may be answered, opportunities can be uncovered, trends can be identified, and decisions can be made quickly and effectively.
Looker 

Looker is a top-tier BI tool because it gives users a bird’s-eye view of their business’s data, from which they can draw insights and make smarter decisions. Looker is a streamlined and user-friendly business intelligence tool that can be used for various marketing, sales, and product-related analyses and explorations. With Looker, businesses have a unified and interactive view of their analytics in real-time, from Google Cloud, AWS, and Microsoft Azure, among others. Non-technical users can undertake ad hoc data analysis with the software’s drag-and-drop interface, while advanced modeling features allow for individualized data exploration and reporting.
Power BI

Power BI provides a user-friendly interface for developing, publishing, and disseminating dynamic dashboards, reports, and visualizations based on Microsoft’s extensive data management capabilities. To get an edge over the competition, use it to delve deeper into your data, find useful insights, and make decisions based on the data. The application provides AI-assisted analytics, accommodates user-created visualizations, and provides access to more than a hundred community-made templates, all of which contribute to an intelligent data representation. Power BI provides simple mechanisms for sharing and collaborating on analytical results with others.
Sisense 

Sisense is cutting-edge business analytics software that facilitates easy data interpretation for users in any field. Firms can use Sisense’s artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) features to foresee trends, enhance operations, and remain competitive. The program can easily connect to any data source, whether it’s hosted in the cloud or on-premise, in the form of flat files or APIs. This paves the way for users of Sisense to receive real-time visibility into their business operations from any location at any time.
Qlik 

Qlik provides tools for collecting and visualizing business data, making it simple to investigate such data. This system’s associative engine is superior to query-based systems with fixed constraints. It aids in collecting and organizing data, complete or otherwise, and the discovery of hidden connections within such datasets. This guarantees full transparency in the final data set, allowing for more precise analytics and better, well-informed judgments. Qlik’s user-friendly interface lets anyone quickly utilize data to develop unique dashboards and uncover hidden patterns. Qlik gives everyone, from entrepreneurs to enterprise data analysts, access to analytics insights.
Birst 

Whether you’re an experienced data analyst or starting, you’ll appreciate Birst’s straightforward interface and powerful visualization tools. It allows you to easily link your various data repositories, design personalized visualizations, and disseminate your findings across the organization. You may rest certain that any private or sensitive data you store in Birst will remain just that. Users have fine-grained control over who has access to what data, limiting access to just those who should be able to see and change the information.
Zoho Analytics

Due to its extensive feature set, user-friendly interface, and low per-user cost, Zoho Analytics is an excellent choice for small organizations needing a business intelligence solution. To better understand the information being presented, this application allows you to extract data from numerous sources and construct reports that are both user-friendly and effective. Using the acquired data, machine learning, and natural language processing technologies, the AI assistant “Zia” will provide answers to inquiries entered into a query box.
NetSuite 

Cloud-based business intelligence and enterprise resource planning software, NetSuite, is popular. Comprehensive business intelligence (BI) capabilities are made possible by integrating multiple aspects, including financial data, dashboards, reporting, and predictive analytics. When certain services are sold, NetSuite can automatically generate a project and keep tabs on its progress, budget, and time spent on tasks. Utilization and backlog reports aid corporate users in analyzing staff workloads and productivity.
Datapine 

Datapine’s business intelligence software excels in analytics and usability. The self-service BI solution helps business users and data analysts quickly develop valuable business insights and make data-driven choices. Datapine is a complete business intelligence solution for analytics. First, importing data from databases, flat files, CRM and ERP systems, marketing, social media, and helpdesk data is simple. Their lightning-fast data warehouse speeds up searches for corresponding data. The product’s analyzer processes and visualizes data. In addition to drag-and-drop chart creation and analysis, this tool offers drill-downs, conditional formatting, trend detection, and prediction.
Domo 

Domo Business Cloud is a data aggregation and workflow application development platform. Dashboards and reports, machine learning, predictive analytics, and external self-service reporting are only some of its features. The value that Domo gives to your partnerships with third-party providers and other interested parties. Domo Everywhere is a tool that facilitates the creation of portals for external collaborators. This allows people to evaluate your information and reach their conclusions independently. In addition, the data visualization boards are standalone widgets that may be manipulated regarding content, filtering, and size. Last but not least, the platform lets you control access for people inside and outside your organization, regardless of whether they have a Domo account.
InetSoft

InetSoft provides machine-learning solutions for a wide variety of business processes, including financial reporting, human resource analytics, marketing tools, sales dashboards, supply chain dashboards, project management dashboards, and enterprise asset management. Machine learning mixed with human-developed analysis, a scalable architecture, and interactive dashboards and reports are just some of the features. User-friendliness points were deducted from InetSoft since the tutorial library could be expanded to cover considerably more material for the average user. In addition, this is the first I’ve encountered this personally, but I’ve heard that customer support can be slow to answer.
Board

BI, predictive analytics, and performance management are all rolled into one convenient package with Board International. Although broad in scope, most of its attention is directed toward business intelligence (BI) in finance. It includes sections for budgeting and consolidation, human resources and workforce planning, marketing and customer loyalty, supply chain and supplier management, sales and cross-selling and upselling, and key performance indicators and service levels. The company is based in Switzerland, although the software is available in several languages. Its MOLAP strategy has been replaced by an in-memory calculating engine in the most recent edition of its platform.
Dundas BI

Dundas BI, developed by Dundas Data Visualization, can generate conventional and ad hoc reports. Still, its primary use is in creating dashboards and scorecards, two of the company’s traditional areas of expertise. A web-based interface that can be customized for each user performs the analysis and visualization. Different functions are available to advance and basic users. The newest release adds support for Linux and an IDE for creating custom analytical apps, a brand-new in-memory engine, and the ability to conduct queries in a natural language. Dundas BI has been adapted for use in 19 different sectors, from the more commonplace ones like banking and healthcare to more niche ones like clean technology, mining, and construction. It targets large businesses and excels in embedded BI.
MicroStrategy

MicroStrategy’s cloud, on-premises, and hybrid deployment options allow it to appeal to the enterprise BI market in various sectors. The intuitive drag-and-drop interface facilitates the development of individualized, real-time dashboards and the presentation of user-generated data. MicroStrategy’s federated analytics feature lets users combine data from multiple sources, including Tableau, Qlik, and Power BI, for more accurate reporting and deeper insights. In addition, it has an enterprise semantics graph that can index your data assets to add geospatial context and real-time telemetry to your data silos. You can try out the entire MicroStrategy platform without cost for 30 days.
Tibco

Regarding dashboards, interactive visualization, data preparation, and workflow, Tibco Spotfire is where it’s at. Data models can be built with the help of the platform’s data preparation features, which are based on machine learning. It is used in various industries, from banking and finance to manufacturing and retail, public administration and transportation, healthcare, and life sciences. New to this release is Python support.
Exago 

Exago’s extensive features and award-winning usability make it a fantastic choice for novices and seasoned professionals. Features such as a library of standard customizable reports, a drag-and-drop ExpressView designer, and a spreadsheet-organized Advanced Report builder are available, with access controlled individually for each user. Create, format, and export reports regardless of your technical expertise. Exago meets all of our requirements for cost-effectiveness and exceptional usability. It’s cheap, adaptable, simple to set up, and simple for end users to pick up and run. Their “stealth mode” integration with your product includes features like an accessible API, completely modifiable CSS, single sign-on authorization, and points for a programmatic extension.
